
# cpanel - Cpanel/SecurityPolicy/UI.pod            Copyright 2022 cPanel, L.L.C.
#                                                           All rights reserved.
# copyright@cpanel.net                                         http://cpanel.net
# This code is subject to the cPanel license. Unauthorized copying is prohibited

=head1 NAME

Cpanel::SecurityPolicy::UI - Utility functions for UI output in security policies


=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Cpanel::SecurityPolicy::UI ();

    Cpanel::SecurityPolicy::UIhtml_header();
    Cpanel::SecurityPolicy::UIprocess_template( 'my_template.tt', $data_href );
    Cpanel::SecurityPolicy::UIhtml_footer();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class defines an interface that the SecurityPolicy UI objects can use to
communicate with the main UI.

=head1 INTERFACE

=head2 html_header()

Send the appropriate HTML header information to the user.

=head2 html_footer()

Send the appropriate closing information for an HTML page to the user.

=head2 json_header()

Send the appropriate header for a JSON response to the user.

=head2 text_header()

Send the appropriate header for a text response to the user.

=head2 xml_header()

Send the appropriate header for a XML response to the user.

=head2 force_redirect( $url )

Redirect the user's browser to the supplied C<$url>.

=head2 process_template( $template, $data_href )

Use C<Cpanel::Template> to process the template file named by C<$template>.
Extra data is supplied to the template by the C<$data_href> hash reference.
This data will be accessable to the template through the C<data> variable.

=head2 xml_simple_errormsg( $msg )

Wrap the string C<$msg> in an appropriate cPanel result XML document and send
to the user.

=head2 json_simple_errormsg( $msg )

Wrap the string C<$msg> in an appropriate cPanel result JSON structure and send
to the user.

=head2 text_simple_errormsg( $msg )

Send the string C<$msg> to the user as a text string.

=head1 INCOMPATIBILITIES

None reported.

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

No bugs have been reported.

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2011, cPanel, Inc. All rights reserved.
This code is subject to the cPanel license. Unauthorized copying is prohibited
