
# cpanel - Cpanel/Validate/SubDomain.pod           Copyright 2022 cPanel, L.L.C.
#                                                           All rights reserved.
# copyright@cpanel.net                                         http://cpanel.net
# This code is subject to the cPanel license. Unauthorized copying is prohibited

=head1 NAME

Cpanel::Validate::SubDomain - validation methods for subdomain parts.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Cpanel::Validate::SubDomain;

    if ( !Cpanel::Validate::SubDomain::is_valid( $subdomain ) ) {
        print "'$subdomain' is not a valid subdomain.\n";
    }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Consolidate the code for validating and cleaning subdomains.

=head1 INTERFACE

=head2 is_valid( $subdomain )

Returns true if the subdomain is valid. Valid in this case covers any valid sequence
domain segments joined by '.', a single '*', or a single '*' joined to a valid sequence
of domain segments by a '.'.

If the '*' is anywhere other than the beginning of the subdomain, or is not joined to the
rest of the subdomain by a single '.', it is invalid.

=head2 normalize( $subdomain )

Removes leading and trailing whitespace.

=head1 CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENT

C<Cpanel::Validate::SubDomain> requires no configuration.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

None.

=head1 INCOMPATIBILITIES

None reported.

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

No bugs have been reported.

=head1 AUTHOR

G. Wade Johnson  C<< wade@cpanel.net >>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2010, cPanel, Inc. All rights reserved.
This code is subject to the cPanel license. Unauthorized copying is prohibited
