
=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj::Interface::Meta - Interface class which can digest
driver meta data and be used by the ConfigObj system

=head1 VERSION

1.0

=head1 SYNOPSIS

use Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj                         ();

use Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj::Driver::MyDriver       ();

use Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj::Driver::MyDriver::Meta ();

use Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj::Interface::Meta        ();

my $meta_obj   = Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj::Interface::Meta->new();

# under the hood: digest data provided by functions in MyDriver::Meta

my $driver_obj = Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj::Driver::MyDriver->init();
$driver->{'meta'} = $meta_obj->load_driver_meta_content($driver_obj);

# Implementation

my $config_obj = Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj->new();
# now config_obj has imported Interface::Meta, MyDriver and MyDriver::Meta

my $driver = $config_obj->get_driver('mydriver');

# the driver object has a convenience method (provid by Interface::Config::v1)
#  to get the Meta obj

my $meta_obj = $driver->meta(); # ISA Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj::Interface::Meta

# now when can use interface methods to extract info about driver

my $vender = $meta_obj->vender() || 'Unknown';

my $published_since = $meta_obj->since() || '';

# etc,etc.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Summary

The Meta interface class is a recyclible object for use by a ConfigObj and it's
drivers.

=head2 Pattern of Instantiation and Access

Since drivers are instantiated with a reference to the calling ConfigObj, the
Meta object can be instantiated at any time by the ConfigObj or an individual
driver.

The v1 driver specification provides a convenience method, I<meta>,
which will retrieve the Meta obj from the current driver's ConfigObj reference
and inject the respective drivers meta data module ($driver::META).

Therefore, when creating a driver, should be at least two modules:

=over

=item Driver Module: I<Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj::Driver::MyDriver>

This should live in the C<Cpanel/Config/ConfigObj/Driver/> directory.  This
module should implement C<Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj::Interface::Driver>, or
more appropriately a driver specification like
C<Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj::Interface::Config::v1>.  If the driver does not
implement a cPanel provided driver specification, a C<meta> method will need
to be defined which will return a Meta object.

=item Driver Meta Module: I<Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj::Driver::MyDriver::META>

This is a simple module which should provide a few specific functions, such
that the Meta object can source the respective information about the driver.
See L</CREATING DRIVER META MODULES> below.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Public Interface for Driver Meta Information

This are the methods used by callers which are working with the drivers. I.e.,
code which wish to render or act against some driver's meta content.

=over

=item C<content>

Returns the driver metadata content information as a hashref

=item C<vendor>

Returns the driver's vendor

=item C<url>

Returns the driver's url

=item C<name>

Returns the driver's name.  By default, the 'short', human readable name will
be returned.  Options include the following:

=over

=item I<short>

Short, human readable name.

=item I<long>

Long, human readable name.

=item I<driver>

Driver key name used by code and limited input UIs

=back

=item C<since>

Returns the first occurance of the driver within cPanel/WHM; a cPanel/WHM
version for human consumption.  I<NOTE:> While this is intended for human
consumption, it is recommended that the full, three segment cPanel/WHM version
string exists within it, bookended with whitespace.

=item C<version>

Returns the driver module version.  I.e., C<$MyDriver::VERSION>

=item C<abstract>

Returns the driver's abstract text.

=item C<showcase>

Returns the driver metadata showcase information as a hashref.  If the driver
META module does not implement the C<showcase> method, this will return C<undef>.

=item C<is_recommended>

Returns a boolean representing if cPanel recommends performing the 'enable'
action of the driver.  If the driver does not implement the C<showcase> method,
this will return false.

=item C<is_spotlight_feature>

Returns a boolean representing if cPanel provides special distinction for the
driver's feature. aka, something of particular interest but not explicit
recommendation on cPanel's part.  If the driver does not implement the
C<showcase> method, this will return false.

=back

=head2 Public Interface for ConfigObj or Driver Specification Implementations

=over

=item C<new>

Constructor method. The method takes two optional arguments

=over

=item I<$class_defaults>

hashref of properties to set.  Valid keys are I<consumer>, I<content>, and
I<showcase>.  This provides a means of injecting driver meta data at
instantiation.  It is HIGHLY recommended that you use the public method
I<set_meta_content_from_driver($driver_obj)> instead.

=item I<$consumer_obj>

A ConfigObj to inject.

I<NOTE:> While this is an optional value, not providing one will likely be an
issue if the caller neglects to define one (ala C<set_consumer>).  That said,
it is optional such that the caller can inject the ConfigObj when is most
appropriate.

=back

=item C<load_driver_meta_content>

Provide a driver object as the first argument.

Digest the respective META module for the driver and return a hashref of
metadata.

=item C<set_meta_content_from_driver>

Provide a driver object as the first argument.

This method will run C<load_driver_meta_content> and store the returned,
aggregated META content:

=over

=item I<in the driver>

By storing the data in the driver, future invocations can use that reference
and not have to perform C<load_driver_meta_content>

=item I<as internal properties>

By storing the data internally, Meta can provide interface methods that extract
the data cleanly. See L</Public Interface for Driver Meta Information> above for
said interface methods.

=back

=item C<set_consumer>

Store a ConfigObj reference.

=item C<set_locale_handle>

Store a reference to a C<Cpanel::Locale> object for use by drivers

=back

=head1 CREATING DRIVER META MODULES

When creating a driver, you must create a C<::META> module.  This module will
live in a directory adjacent to the driver.  For example, if the driver is
"MyDriver", the C<::META> module file would be
C<Cpanel/Config/ConfigObj/Driver/MyDriver/META.pm>.

=head2 Required Functions

=over

=item C<meta_version>

Return the Meta specification version string. cPanel currently only has one
Meta specification version: "1".

=item C<get_driver_name>

Return the driver key name.  This should be simple value that is portable,
human comprehensible and can be used programmatically.

Examples:
  I<LITERAL DRIVER MODULE NAME>   I<VALID DRIVER KEY NAME SUGGESTIONS>
   MyDriver                      my_driver, mydriver
   HTTPRequestMunger             http_request_munger, request_munger
   ThreeNetwork                  three_network, 3_network, 3net


=item C<content>

Return a hashref which follows the example structure below

   {
        'vendor' => 'Your Company',
        'url'    => 'www.domain.tld',
        'name'   => {
            'short'  => 'Example Driver',
            'long'   => 'Example Driver for Developer Usage',
            'driver' => get_driver_name(), # this could be hard coded
        },
        'since'    => 'cPanel® 11.32.x', # optional reference to cPanel/WHM version
        'abstract' => "An example driver for developers to emulate.",
        'version'  => $Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj::Driver::ExampleDriver::VERSION,
           # version element should match the Perl module version of the driver
           #  itself.  It may be hard coded.
    }

The C<content> function will be passed a Cpanel::Locale object.  This allows the
developer to potentially provide translations for their I<abstract> or other
content.

=back

=head2 Optional Functions

=over

=item C<showcase>

Return a hashref with meta data pertinent to a Feature Showcase implementation,
L</Cpanel::FeatureShowcase>.

Supported element key/values:

=over

=item I<is_recommended>

Boolean value to indicate if the cPanel recommends performing the 'enable'
action of the driver.

=item I<is_spotlight_feature>

Boolean value to indicate if cPanel provides special distinction for the
driver's feature.  This is very similar to I<is_recommended>; provides the
implementing interface with a secondary field when making visual and behavior
distinctions.

=item I<valid_interfaces>

Array reference containing 'display interface types' that are valid targets for
the driver.  It is recommended to use C<$Cpanel::FeatureShowcase::Display::*>
global variables for consistency.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj>,
L<Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj::Interface::Meta>,
L<Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj::Filter>,
L<Cpanel::Config::ConfigObj::FilterList>

=head1 AUTHOR

David Neimeyer - L<david.neimeyer@cpanel.net>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2012, cPanel, Inc. All rights reserved.
This code is subject to the cPanel license. Unauthorized copying is prohibited.

